All right.
Let's talk about how we're going to implement this collect files function.
So remember the goal of collect files is to walk through all the different files and folders inside
of a project directory and find all the files ending in some particular suffix.
So let's take a look at how we're going to implement this okay.
The first thing to really understand here is that when we start to walk through a directory it kind
of has a structure that looks like this.
Now I've taken the movie's project directory and I've kind of massaged it just a little bit.
So a lot of these different files and folders inside of here are actually made up.
I just did it for the purposes of demonstration in this diagram.
Everything that's in blue represents a folder and everything that's in white represents a file so he
could say that our movie's directory has two folders inside of it.
The test directory and the source directory so our goal would be able to go in to movies.
Take a look at test take a look at everything inside there and find any file with dot test dot J.S.
which would be like that right there.
We would then have to walk into the widgets directory and find all the files inside there and find any
marked with test JFK.
So once again those two right there and we would also go into source.
Take a look in there.
In this case nothing.
So how are we going to automate this process.
Well the first thing to understand is that this kind of directory structure right here looks like a
very common data structure that you're going to see in the world of programming referred to as a tree.
First off let me clarify what a data structure is a data structure is some programming structure that
we use to organize data inside of our application throughout this course.
You've been using data structures in just about every single app in extremely common data structure
is in array.
It organizes a series of records in a list.
Another very common data structure that you see in the world of javascript is an object a object has
a collection of key and value pairs another term for an object or technically a data structure that
the javascript object implements is referred to as a hash map or a map or a hash table all kind of equivalent
terms but usually in the world's javascript we just refer to an object as simply an object.
So another kind of data structure that we can use to describe the directory structure that we have right
here is called a tree.
So another way that we can represent this series of files and folders would be something like this right
here and we would refer to this as a tree.
So at the tree we have some head element.
So that would be the top level directory that directory that has some number of children.
So in this case the movie's directory has source and test then those folders have their own files and
say like test right here has its own collection of files and folders and even those have its own files
inside of it a tree data structure like this right here can be arbitrarily deep.
So what we really need to figure out here is how to iterate through a tree data structure.
There are two different ways to iterate through a tree data structure and take a look at all the records
encapsulated inside of here the two different ways are referred to as a bread first breadth first search
or traversal.
The second way is referred to as a depth first search or traversal now for the purposes of what we are
doing a breadth first search is going to be a little bit easier to implement.
So we're going to focus on understanding how a breadth first traversal is implemented.
So in this diagram we're going to take a look at this tree structure and I'm going to kind of demonstrate
how a breath first algorithm to walk through this data structure would be implemented.
So here's how it would work.
Now we're not going to focus too much on like the idea of finding the test dot J.S. files.
I'm just going to describe in general how a breadth first search works.
So what a breath for search we're always going to start off with the parent node.
So in this case that would be the movie's folder appear with the movies folder.
We would then ask that thing what it's child records are essentially in our very practical case what
folders and files are listed inside of movies.
In this case it's s c and test.
So we could take those two elements we just found and we would add them into a big array that we're
going to represent down here and that's step one.
We start off at the very parent.
We take a look at all the children of that parent and we add those children to an array.
We then start up a for loop the for loop is going to iterate through this array that we have pictured
down here then for every element inside this for loop we're going to take a look at every element and
find a list of all of its different children.
So we would first take a look at S.R. C and we take a look at S or C we would look at all the different
children has in this case would be these three files right here.
We would take those three files and throw them into the same array that we are currently iterating over
that's all we do for s our C we just say OK do you have any children.
Yes you do.
OK throw them into this big array.
Down here we then move on to the next element.
In this case tests we look at the test folder and we say what children do you have in this case would
be at test and widgets.
So we would take those two things those two children and throw them into this array as well.
Then we move on to the next element you tells.
In this case this is something that doesn't have any children.
So we say Okay no problem.
Let's skip to the next element.
Also doesn't have any children.
Okay.
No problem.
Skip on to the next.
Okay.
No children skip.
And then we get to widgets which is a folder.
So it does have some number of children.
So we then take a look at widgets we would find all of its children and add them to this array as well.
And so at the very end as you can see we end up with this one gigantic array with every element out
of our tree.
And so now we can take a look at this array down here and we can do whatever it is we originally intended.
So for example we could look through all the different records very easily and find every record would
say test dot J.S. inside the name.
So that would be app test J.S. autocomplete and notice dot test J.S. that's the idea behind a breadth
first search.
So we're going to implement a breadth first search from scratch inside of our collect files function
and we're going to implement it using a very similar strategy to that l s program that we wrote a little
bit ago.
So remember with that l s program or the list program we made use of the FSA module from the node standard
documentation.
So we're gonna use all the same techniques but now we're going to apply it to walk through an entire
directory structure.
So a quick pause and we'll start our implementation in just a moment.